# Written Analysis For PyCitySchools

1. We have an overall dataset that requires us to unlock insights regarding the schools in a supposed city. We first begin with a high level overview that analyzes the performance of the overall district. This has us construct a DataFrame that considers the characteristics of the entire district without differentiating between individual schools.
2. After analyzing the performance of the overall distric and computing related statistics, we consider the individual schools. To do so we must consider the alignment to ensure that the columns are assigned to the appropriate school. We construct a DataFrame that allows us to see the individual performances of the different schools in the district, along with their corresponding funding and student counts.
3. Once we have constructed the overall school DataFrame, we can analyze the trends on a school by school basis. This allows us to draw some interesting conclusions about the performance of schools and the relation of performance to other variables, such as funding and the type of school.

- First Major Insight: The first major insight our data constructed from the different schools is that greater funding does not (in this case) correspond to better academic performance. Using the idea of binning and the pandas cut method, we can see that schools that belong to a lower spending bracket have a higher overall reading and math performance than schools in a higher bin.

- Second Major Insight: There is also a notable relationship between the size of the school and the performance of individual students. We can see (through the use of binning) that schools with a greater number of enrolled students have poorer performance in math and reading than schools with a lower number of enrolled students. This is particularly the case with larger schools in the area of math performance. Small and medium schools have a comparable level of performance, while schools classifed as large have a significantly lower level of performance.
